<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Acknowledgements</title>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments" aria-labelledby="ack">
<span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_237" aria-label="237"/>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="BMH" id="ack"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Bold_B_11">ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</span></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="BMCO">We are deeply grateful to the TalentSmartEQ family&#x2014;Howard Farfel, Stacey Sultar, William Mau, Raj Khanna, and the entire Smartie team&#x2014;who cheered us on from the first page to the last. You read early drafts, showed up to brainstorming sessions, and remained positive lights at the end of what is, in fact, a very long tunnel. This book would not exist without the warmth and steadiness you brought to every stage of it.</p>
<p class="BMTX">A special thank you to Amy Miller, who read this book cover to cover, gave us honest feedback, organized the references, wrangled the survey appendix, double and triple checked the numbers, and did a hundred other things that no one saw but everyone benefited from. You are the kind of colleague writers dream about.</p>
<p class="BMTX">To Lindsey Vance, thank you for your data analysis magic and for helping uncover findings that may help us change the way the world talks about friction.</p>
<p class="BMTX">To Garrett Cummins, thank you for the inspiration behind the cover graphic. It captures something we couldn&#x2019;t put into words, which feels exactly right for a book about friction.</p>
<p class="BMTX">To Janis Ozolins, thank you for the incredible illustrations, for being such a flexible partner, and for sticking with us when our deadlines started getting a bit shifty.</p>
<p class="BMTX">And to our editor, Michael Signorelli. In a world drowning in AI slop, your commitment to helping us take human writing and polish it in such a way that people might <i>actually</i> learn from was invaluable. You made this book sharper, cleaner, and more helpful than it would have been without you.</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="DIAO"><b>Ross:</b> First and foremost, thank you to my wife Din for her steadfast love, support, and encouragement, as ever. Writing a book is not an easy undertaking but having you in my corner always helps me keep going whenever I want to give up. I love you super magic.</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="BMTX">Maggie&#x2014;it has been so fun (and frustrating and exciting and confusing and interesting and exhausting) writing this book with you! Who would have thought a school tour could lead to such productive collaboration? Writing a book is hard; co-writing a book is hard in ways that I could not have imagined. I&#x2019;m certain I would have not succeeded at it but for the <span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_238" aria-label="238"/>wisdom, grace, humor, and energy you bring as a collaborator. Every time I sent you something, I knew it would come back more polished and with more depth. I can&#x2019;t wait to see what comes of all this, and already noodling on the next idea &#x2026;</p>
<p class="BMTX">Thank you to my family and to my friends, who continued to check in on the status of the book (and my mental health) throughout the writing process. You showed up in small ways that mattered more than you probably knew. Thanks especially to Froth Talk, the Kramer House Crew, my Tuesday AM Men&#x2019;s Group, Will Fagan, and Dean Pinter for the ongoing encouragement and prayers.</p>
<p class="BMTX">Finally, to Sugar Bear, Lu Bug, and our newest addition K-pop. I hope this means something to you someday. In any case, maybe it can serve as an encouragement to make things, and to keep going when making things gets hard.</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="DIAO"><b>Maggie:</b> To my husband, Ryan (aka, Pants)&#x2014;thank you for wrangling a six-year-old and a toddler who is, lovingly, in his pterodactyl phase, while I disappeared into this book more times than I can count. Our life is full of love and family and chaos and fun and noise and laughter, but some days, it just feels <i>too</i> full. Thank you for sticking through it, and for the support that made all of this possible.</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="BMTX">To my tribe of badass women: Kristine Lay, Lauren Knuth, Arwa Ibrahim, Sarah Shemirani, Jessica Gressel, Carrie Troutman, Dana Washington, Jamie Velez, Jen Habig, Janette Williams, Rachel Peterson, Maren Farnum, Amy Wolff, Heather Washington, Amber Sullivan, Ronak Daylami, Leah Bushman, Bindya Bhakta, Jarae Birkeland, Sara Raynr, Desiree Shapiro, Monica Perea, Sarah Poole, Nicole Forward, and Morgan Hembree. There are no words for the roles you all played in my life and work over the last two years. Thank you for your love, friendship, honesty, help, and patience. Thank you for letting me borrow your strength and your courage when mine was running low. I am so lucky to be held by a community of women who show up for other women. You give me the power to keep leaning into the friction in my own life, and that has made me a better friend, parent, partner, daughter, and leader. To Tim Davisson, thank you for your wisdom and commitment to sharing the messy bits. To Felix Sablan, Doug Riddle, and Brian Beamish, thank you for all of the various forms of support, important feedback, and beautiful conversations shared over meals.</p>
<p class="BMTX">To Ross&#x2014;Where to even begin. We have been in each other&#x2019;s lives since graduate school, which means you have seen versions of me that most people never will. You signed up to write a book with me, and what you got was an under-slept partner, a grieving daughter, and someone who needed a coach/therapist/healer/mind reader/magician more than a co-author on more days than I would like to admit. You were all of those things, without ever being asked. You are a beautiful writer and an even more generous reader. Every time I handed you something, you handed it back better, because you saw what I was trying to say more clearly than I could. I have learned so much from you about writing, about thinking, and about how to stay in the friction long enough for something real to emerge.</p>
<p class="BMTX">To my dad, Dennis, and my sister, Vic&#x2014;thank you for celebrating with me every step of the way, even in the darkest of hours.</p>
<p class="BMTX">And to my mom, Lynne. I am so sad you will never get to hold a copy of this book or see it in the wild. But your fingerprints are all over it, because you were my first friction partner.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>