<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Friction</title>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="backmatter" aria-label="bm01">
<span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_282" aria-label="282"/>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec1">
<h2 class="H1F" id="sec1"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Black_B_11">Take Friction Further</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">The experiments in this book are a starting point. For leaders and organizations ready to go deeper, <b>Leading Through Friction&#x2122;</b> is a leadership development program from TalentSmartEQ, based on the research and framework introduced in these pages.</p>
<p class="TX">Friction shows up in every organization where people care about the work &#x2014; the hard conversation you&#x2019;re avoiding, the tension in the room no one is naming, the pressure and uncertainty that comes with leading a team. It&#x2019;s not a sign that something is wrong. It&#x2019;s a sign that something important is happening.</p>
<p class="TX"><b>Most leaders are taught to eliminate friction. The best leaders learn how to work with it.</b></p>
<p class="TX"><i>The Leading Through Friction</i> training experience gives leaders and their teams the skills to recognize what friction is telling them and respond with intention. Leaders who go through the program are better equipped to:</p>
<p class="BLF">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;Spot friction early, before it escalates and impacts performance</p>
<p class="BL">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;Respond with intention rather than react on instinct</p>
<p class="BL">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;Navigate tension, conflict, and ambiguity more effectively</p>
<p class="BLL">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;Build the trust and alignment that drives team performance</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec2">
<h2 class="H2" id="sec2"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Medium_11">About TalentSmartEQ</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">TalentSmartEQ is the world&#x2019;s premier provider of emotional intelligence solutions. Our training programs, EQ assessments, trainer certification, and coaching services make an impact at every level of an organization, from leaders and teams to individual contributors, transforming cultures to drive individual performance and organizational success. We have worked with more than 75% of the Fortune 500 across a range of industries from healthcare and technology to manufacturing, financial services, and education. Our #1 best-selling book, <i>Emotional Intelligence 2.0</i>, has sold more than 3 million copies and is widely recognized as the standard resource for developing emotional intelligence at work.</p>
<p class="TX">EQ is not a soft skill &#x2014; it&#x2019;s a measurable, learnable capability that accounts for up to <b>60% of job performance</b>, far outweighing IQ and technical skills. And it matters most when things get hard.</p>
<p class="BLF">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;<b>90%</b> of top performers are high in EQ</p>
<p class="BL">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;<b>20% higher team engagement</b> and <b>34% greater retention</b> when leaders demonstrate strong EQ</p>
<p class="BL">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;<b>30% increase in performance</b> reported by high-EQ teams</p>
<p class="BLL">&#x2022;&#x2005;&#x2005;<b>19% average revenue growth</b> and <b>63% lower turnover</b> in organizations that invest in EQ development</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec3">
<h2 class="H2" id="sec3"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Medium_11">Bring</span> <span class="SANS_Gotham_Medium_Italic_I_11">Leading Through Friction</span> <span class="SANS_Gotham_Medium_11">to Your Organization</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">To learn more about the <i>Leading Through Friction</i> program, Emotional Intelligence development solutions, bulk book purchases, or speaking engagements, visit:</p>
<p class="TNI-CF"><b><a href="http://www.talentsmarteq.com">www<wbr/>.talentsmarteq<wbr/>.com</a></b></p>
<p class="TNI-C"><b>888.818.SMART</b></p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>