<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Conclusion</title>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="conclusion" role="doc-conclusion" aria-labelledby="con">
<span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_233" aria-label="233"/>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="CTINT" id="con"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Bold_B_11">CONCLUSION</span></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="TNI">You made it to the last hard thing.</p>
<p class="TX">Not the hardest, that was probably somewhere in the middle, in the strategy that made you think of a specific person, or a specific moment, or a specific pattern you&#x2019;ve been trying to change for years and for which you now have homework. But finishing a book about friction while carrying your own is its own kind of accomplishment, and we want to acknowledge it before we say anything else.</p>
<p class="TX">A well-known professor at the University of Virginia used to say it was worth reading a whole book if only to take one line with you. One sentence or thought that might genuinely change the way you think about things in your own life.</p>
<p class="TX">As we have written this book, there are simple ideas that we have come back to again and again, phrases that capture the core ideas that shape what we&#x2019;ve been thinking and writing about, and that we hope you take with you.</p>
<p class="TX">Here they are.</p>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec1">
<h2 class="H1" id="sec1"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Black_B_11">Leadership Is Emotional.</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">Leadership is an emotional act; not occasionally, not in the difficult conversations or the high-stakes moments, all of it. In the ordinary Tuesday afternoon meeting. The performance review you&#x2019;ve been putting off. The Slack message you read three times trying to decide what tone it was written in. The moment you walked into a room and felt something shift before anyone said a word. Leadership is emotional because human beings are emotional, it is a fundamental feature of how we are built. Recall Antonio Damasio&#x2019;s patients who could reason flawlessly and still couldn&#x2019;t decide what to eat for lunch, because without emotion choices don&#x2019;t have weight. Without emotion, there&#x2019;s no signal for what matters. We don&#x2019;t think our way to action; we feel our way there, and then we think about it after.</p>
<p class="TX">What this means for leaders is not that you need to cry more in meetings or turn your one-on-ones into therapy sessions. It means you cannot lead well while pretending that emotions aren&#x2019;t at work inside you, in the people around you, and in the systems you&#x2019;re part of.</p>
<p class="TX"><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_234" aria-label="234"/>The data we collected from over 1,100 working American adults confirmed what we have both seen in years of practice: The emotional reality of work is not a sideshow to the main event. <i>It is the main event.</i> Sixty percent of workers across every generation already know that emotional intelligence will matter more, not less, in the future of work. The question has never been whether emotions belong in leadership, they do whether we want them to or not. The question has always been whether we are willing to get more skilled at working with them.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec2">
<h2 class="H1" id="sec2"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Black_B_11">Emotions Are a Dataset.</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">Emotions are specific, meaningful information about what is happening inside you and around you&#x2014;when you attend to and examine them.</p>
<p class="TX">Everything we do in life contains emotional data that can help us understand ourselves, make better decisions, connect with others, and get things done.</p>
<p class="TX">Yet we are systematically undertrained to interpret that data. Three-quarters of the people we surveyed said that emotions were discouraged, minimized, or not talked about growing up. The &#x201C;emotion is weakness&#x201D; myth may be fading, but it&#x2019;s fading slowly, unevenly, and leaving real wreckage in its wake. Overcoming this myth can be a genuine struggle.</p>
<p class="TX">And the struggle does not get easier as the complexity of leadership grows, it gets harder. The emotional demands compound. The stakes attached to a leader&#x2019;s emotional responses multiply, and the cost of their emotional illiteracy is borne by everyone around them.</p>
<p class="TX">This is not cause for despair! It is an encouragement to develop emotional intelligence with intention; in yourself, in your relationships, in your organization. Do it with the same rigor, investment, and willingness to feel like a beginner that you might bring to developing a &#x201C;hard skill.&#x201D; There&#x2019;s information coursing through your body all the time, about what&#x2019;s missing, what needs your attention, and learning to interpret it is the central competency of leadership.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec3">
<h2 class="H1" id="sec3"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Black_B_11">Friction Isn&#x2019;t Good or Bad.</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">Friction is a signal, and like all signals, its value depends entirely on whether you are paying attention to it and whether you have developed enough fluency to understand what it is telling you.</p>
<p class="TX">Some friction is productive. It is the productive tension of a team that disagrees but doesn&#x2019;t fight. It is the uncomfortable stretch when you&#x2019;re learning something that doesn&#x2019;t come easily and progress feels negligible. It is the resistance that tells you this decision matters, that you are not sleepwalking through something that deserves your full engagement. This friction is worth leaning into and can be the energy source of real growth.</p>
<p class="TX">Some friction is instructive. It is the friction that surfaces when a system is misaligned, when a relationship has accumulated some unspoken energy, when a pattern of behavior has been running on autopilot for so long that no one can see it anymore. This friction is not productive in itself&#x2014;it can be painful, sometimes corrosive&#x2014;but it is pointing at <span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_235" aria-label="235"/>something that, if addressed, can open up capacity that wasn&#x2019;t available before. The question this friction asks is not <i>how do I make this stop</i> but <i>what is this telling me that I haven&#x2019;t been willing to hear?</i></p>
<p class="TX">And yes, some friction is simply costly.<sup><a role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref" id="footnote-001-backlink" href="conclusion.xhtml#footnote-001">a</a></sup> Not every difficult thing is a lesson in disguise. Not every conflict contains a hidden gift. Sometimes friction is just expensive, and the right response is to address it, reduce it, or design around it as efficiently as you can. The wisdom is in knowing the difference, and that wisdom is what emotional intelligence, over time and with practice, makes possible.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec4">
<h2 class="H1" id="sec4"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Black_B_11">Emotional Intelligence Is How We Navigate Friction.</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">One of the things we hoped to accomplish in this book was to disentangle emotional intelligence from the fantasy of frictionlessness; the idea that if you just get good enough at EQ, the hard conversations will stop being hard, the difficult people will become easy, and the impossible situations will resolve themselves with grace and minimal stress. That is not what emotional intelligence does. It does something more useful: It gives you the capacity to stay in contact with what is actually happening, in yourself, between you and others, in the systems you&#x2019;re operating inside, so that you can make better decisions about what to do next.</p>
<p class="TX">The four core skills of emotional intelligence, self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, and relationship management, are a practice, not a checklist. Because they&#x2019;re a practice, you can get better at them. Also, because they&#x2019;re a practice, they require ongoing attention, and you will fail at them under sufficient pressure; <i>but you can continue practicing</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">The strategies offered in this book are not a curriculum to complete. They are experiments to run, and re-run, in different seasons of life and leadership<b>,</b> and different configurations of friction. Some of them will work immediately. Some will work slowly, the way a new habit works, barely noticeable until one day it isn&#x2019;t an effort anymore. Some will not work at all for you, and that&#x2019;s OK. You can learn from that too.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division" aria-labelledby="sec5">
<h2 class="H1" id="sec5"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Black_B_11">Experiment More.</span></h2>
<p class="TNI">We did not write this book to be read once. We wrote it to be returned to, not necessarily from the beginning, but sideways, by feel, the way you reach for a tool when you recognize the kind of problem it was made for. The strategies in <a href="part2.xhtml">Part 2</a> are organized by type of friction, but friction doesn&#x2019;t arrive organized. It arrives in the middle of a meeting, in a text message at 10 <small>P.M.</small></p>
<p class="TX">When it arrives, we hope you&#x2019;ll have a name for it. And an experiment.</p>
<p class="TX">Here is something we believe deeply: You do not need this book to keep experimenting. Every time you watch a show about a team under pressure and find yourself thinking about what the leader is doing to the emotional climate, that could become an experiment. Every <span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_236" aria-label="236"/>time you listen to a podcast and notice that the host&#x2019;s curiosity opens something up in the guest that pure advice-giving never would, that could inform an experiment.<sup><a role="doc-noteref" epub:type="noteref" id="footnote-000-backlink" href="conclusion.xhtml#footnote-000">b</a></sup> Every time you read about a company that built something remarkable and find yourself asking not what strategy they used but what it must have felt like to work there, that is a type of experiment in line with what we&#x2019;re offering here. The world is full of friction, in every story, every song, every relationship, every system. The ideas in this book can get you started. But the experiments are infinite, and you can dabble in them anywhere.</p>
<p class="TX">The three forms of friction are intended to describe the emotional terrain of leadership. You will cycle through all three, sometimes simultaneously, sometimes in sequence, sometimes in ways that make it impossible to tell where one level ends and another begins.</p>
<p class="TX">We wrote this book inside our own friction. We finished it holding grief and joy and exhaustion and a deep belief in the same tired hands. We can do hard things, and we believe you can too.</p>
<p class="TX">What we hope you&#x2019;ve built in the process of reading, is a slightly better map.</p>
<p class="TX">Not a map that removes the difficulty, because maps don&#x2019;t do that, but a map that helps you recognize where you are when you tune into friction, and that gives you language for what you&#x2019;re sensing. And that reminds you, when you&#x2019;re in the thick of it and it is genuinely hard, that this is the work.</p>
<hr class="HorizontalRule-1"/>
<ol class="footnotes">
<li id="footnote-001"><p class="FN"><span class="en_tx"><sup><a role="doc-backlink" href="conclusion.xhtml#footnote-001-backlink" title="Go to note reference a" hidden="hidden">a</a></sup></span> Highly recommend <i>The Friction Project</i> by Bob Sutton and Huggy Rao (2024), for exactly how costly organizational friction can be.</p></li>
<li id="footnote-000"><p class="FN"><span class="en_tx"><sup><a role="doc-backlink" href="conclusion.xhtml#footnote-000-backlink" title="Go to note reference b" hidden="hidden">b</a></sup></span> Go listen to Sam Fragoso&#x2019;s podcast <i>Talk Easy</i> for excellent examples of this.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>