<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Foreword</title>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="foreword" role="doc-foreword" aria-labelledby="for">
<span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_xiii" aria-label="xiii"/>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="FMH" id="for"><span class="SANS_Gotham_Black_B_11">FOREWORD</span></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="FMCO">Do you remember moments of friction in your life? There is a moment I remember clearly from when our daughter was a toddler. She was running ahead of us on the sidewalk, and without warning I heard myself shout&#x2014;commanding, urgent, a little frightening even to me. She stopped and looked back in surprise. In that split second, I felt a jolt of fear, the flood of relief, and underneath both of those, something more complicated&#x2014;the pull to run to her, to smooth it over, to make sure she never felt that startled again.</p>
<p class="FMTX">My father, a pediatrician who raised three children of his own, had a different perspective. He told me that children are natural experimenters, so the friction&#x2014;the shout, the boundary, the surprise&#x2014;was not something to protect her from. It was something she needed to hear, see and feel, because learning to navigate discomfort is how children build the capacity to function independently. Helping them to avoid or remove the friction gives them nothing to stop and think through and makes them less equipped to handle the real world.</p>
<p class="FMTX">The same is true of the adults we become. In my first years in management, I remember clearly getting a hard &#x201C;no&#x201D; from a nursing leadership team for funding a program I developed specifically for them. After my boss refused to let me shelve the effort, I had to figure out how to go back and speak up for my work. It was uncomfortable and humbling, but it was also the moment I figured out where my fear was truly coming from.</p>
<p class="FMTX">I had been treating the conversation as a conflict I was a part of. But that wasn&#x2019;t quite right. I was just a supplier and they were a funder. I wasn&#x2019;t afraid of difficult conversations between a &#x201C;supplier&#x201D; and &#x201C;funder.&#x201D; Those are not conflicts&#x2014;they&#x2019;re negotiations, and worthy ones. Flipping that switch in my mind gave me the courage to return to the conversation and make a more compelling case. Their eventual &#x201C;yes&#x201D; led me to promise myself that trying again is worthwhile as long as I&#x2019;m not repeating mistakes. If my boss had not placed me squarely in the friction after the first &#x201C;no,&#x201D; I would have acquiesced and felt I had failed everyone&#x2014;including myself and the organization that had hired me.</p>
<p class="FMTX">Most of us are not taught to work with friction. We want to resolve it, reduce it, or push past it as quickly as possible. We treat tension as a sign that something has gone wrong, whether in a relationship, on a team, or inside ourselves. What we don&#x2019;t do naturally is stop and ask what the friction is and what it is trying to tell us to do differently.</p>
<p class="FMTX"><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_xiv" aria-label="xiv"/>That is exactly what this book teaches you to do.</p>
<p class="FMTX">Drawing on original research and decades of experience coaching leaders and organizations, Drs. Maggie Sass and Ross Blankenship make the definitive case that friction is your most important teacher. The heat you feel in a hard conversation, the resistance on a team that won&#x2019;t align, the internal pull between who you want to be and how you&#x2019;re actually showing up in the moment: These are not problems to push past before you&#x2019;ve considered to them. They are signals. Once you know how to read them, you can choose what to do next to make changes for the better.</p>
<p class="FMTX"><a href="part1.xhtml">Part 1</a> gives you the framework to understand what kind of friction you&#x2019;re facing. <a href="part2.xhtml">Part 2</a> gives you the tools to navigate it. Together, they offer a powerful way to recognize and get better at handling the moments that matter most. Your job as a leader is not to remove friction from your team&#x2019;s path or your own path. Your job is to recognize it, understand it, and use it to improve performance. This book shows you how.</p>
<p class="AUSIGF">Jean Greaves, Ph.D.</p>
<p class="AUSIG">author of <i>Emotional Intelligence 2.0</i></p>
<p class="AUSIG">founder, TalentSmartEQ</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>