<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Praise for Friction</title>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="frontmatter" aria-label="praise">
<p class="FSQH" id="pra"><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_i" aria-label="i"/><span class="SANS_Gotham_Bold_B_11">Praise for Friction:</span></p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;After decades in leadership development, I&#x2019;ve read more books than I can count that tell leaders what they should do&#x2014;without helping them navigate what actually happens. Friction is different. Ross Blankenship and Maggie Sass give leaders the language, insight, and practical tools to work with the emotional realities of leadership&#x2014;not avoid them. It belongs on every leader&#x2019;s desk.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Elaine Biech</b>, CPTD Fellow, 2022 ISA Thought Leader, author of <i>The Art and Science of Training</i></p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;We all run into friction&#x2014;doubts, challenges, and conflict&#x2014;from time to time. This book shows how friction can be a gift for leaders&#x2014;a way to bring out the best in themselves and others. If you want to grow as a leader, this is a great place to start.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Ken Blanchard</b>, coauthor of <i>The One Minute Manager</i> and <i>The Simple Truths of Leadership</i></p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Ross and Maggie provide a simple, yet powerful framework for understanding what friction is in our lives and at work, how to respond to friction in ways that productively moves us and those around us forward, and, most importantly, they lay out a process to continuously learn through experimentation. If you are a new leader, one who has recently been promoted, or a seasoned executive, this book should be on your reading list.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Mark Blankenship</b>, Chief of Staff &amp; Strategy (retired), Jack-in-the-Box</p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;After more than a decade coaching leaders operating in stressful, high-growth environments, I&#x2019;ve become convinced that emotional intelligence is central to effective leadership, and this book offers one of the most practical paths into that truth I&#x2019;ve encountered. By reframing friction not as something to avoid, but as an unavoidable reality of life and organizations that must be worked with skillfully, Blankenship and Sass illuminate what emotional deftness looks like in practice. The second half of the book is especially valuable: a rich collection of experiments for navigating personal, interpersonal, and systemic friction that will expand any coach&#x2019;s or leader&#x2019;s toolkit. And at a moment when AI tempts us to sidestep more and more cognitive and emotional friction, Friction makes a compelling case that much of the discomfort we are eager to offload may be part of what keeps us human.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Andy Crissinger</b>, Executive Coach, Worksong</p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;This is not a book about avoiding hard moments; it&#x2019;s a book about using them. Friction reframes the emotional reality of leadership as something to work with, not manage around, and offers tools that hold up in the moments that actually test you. The shift is simple and consequential: from reacting on instinct to responding with intention.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Frances Frei</b>, Harvard Business School Professor</p>
<p class="FSQC"><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_ii" aria-label="ii"/>&#x201C;Emotions at work are not a distraction from the real work&#x2014;they are the real work. Ross Blankenship and Maggie Sass bring the rigor of organizational psychology and the honesty of practitioners to show how emotional friction shapes everything leaders touch: their decisions, their relationships, and the cultures they build. Friction is exactly the kind of book that moves people from insight to action&#x2014;which is where all real change begins.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Dr. Marshall Goldsmith</b>, Thinkers50 #1 Executive Coach and New York Times bestselling author of <i>The Earned Life, Triggers</i>, and <i>What Got You Here Won&#x2019;t Get You There</i></p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Drawing on original research and decades of experience coaching leaders and organizations, Drs. Maggie Sass and Ross Blankenship make the definitive case that friction is your most important teacher. This book is insightful, grounded, and deeply practical&#x2014;<i>Friction</i> gives leaders a new playbook for turning emotional tension into a strategic advantage. Your job as a leader is not to remove friction from your path or your team&#x2019;s path. Your job is to recognize it, understand it, and use it. Their new book shows you how.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Dr. Jean Greaves</b>, author of bestseller <i>Emotional Intelligence 2.0</i>, founder of TalentSmartEQ</p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Friction invites leaders to approach discomfort with curiosity and experimentation, revealing how the parts of work we most want to smooth over can become the very places where growth begins. A deeply useful guide to turning moments of tension into opportunities for discovery.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Anne-Laure Le Cunff</b>, founder of Ness Labs and author of <i>Tiny Experiments</i></p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;A clear-eyed guide to leading through tension, not around it. Friction shows how pressure, handled well, becomes a source of better judgment, trust and real progress.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Claudius Hildebrand</b>, co-author of the <i>Life Cycle of a CEO</i>, Thinkers50 Radar Award Winner</p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Friction is a critical contribution at a time when organizations are asking where humans fit in and why it matters. A mistake I see over and over is leaders treating emotions as a distraction from the work; it isn&#x2019;t. Emotions are part of the work; a lever that can unlock new potential. What Friction offers is a vocabulary and a set of tools that can help leaders productively engage emotional friction. Leaders will have the rare opportunity to transform a hindrance into a key strength&#x2014;a new way to work with others, teams, and to engage the system.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Michael Hudson</b>, CEO, Hudson Institute of Coaching</p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Unaddressed friction doesn&#x2019;t disappear, it festers into the kind of traumatic incivility that drives good people out and poisons cultures from the inside. Friction gives leaders the tools to read the signals before it gets to that point, building workplaces that are safer, more inclusive, and worth showing up for.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Shola Richards</b>, international keynote speaker and author of <i>Civil Unity: The Radical Path to Transform Our Discourse, Our Lives, and Our World</i></p>
<p class="FSQC"><span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_iii" aria-label="iii"/>&#x201C;This lively and readable book will help you learn what discomfort can teach you, and how you can fruitfully manage friction, which is a part of any leader&#x2019;s life. Until now, friction has been thought of something just to avoid or slog through. This book points out the ways you can learn from friction, and the ways you can deal with it productively. It will change the way you think about the inevitable clashes and disappointments that are a part of life, as well as the emotions that go with them, which will help you both as a person and a leader.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>James E Ryan</b>, President Emeritus and Professor, University of Virginia</p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Big change does not happen without a little resistance&#x2014;and that is exactly what this new book <i>Friction: How Tension, Emotion and Change Reveal Better Leaders</i> is about. Authors and PHD&#x2019;s Ross Blankenship and Maggie Sass dive into the powerful role discomfort plays in growth, creativity and transformation. If you have ever wondered how challenges can become your greatest advantage, this book is a must read! Get ready to rethink tension- and use it to move forward successfully throughout your life.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>John R Ryan</b>, USN ret., Former CEO of the Center for Creative Leadership, 2007&#x2013;2022</p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Friction is in your future. Your near future. This book will help you make the most of it, for your sake and for others&#x2019;.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Michael Bungay Stanier</b>, author of <i>The Coaching Habit</i></p>
<p class="FSQC">&#x201C;Sass and Blankenship&#x2019;s <i>Friction</i> does what most business books skip: it gives you a practical map. Their Friction Field sorts friction by intensity and source, showing leaders when to embrace it and how to appropriately lessen it. The result is a guide for leaders who want to build organizations that are stronger because of friction, not in spite of it.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="FSQ">&#x2014;<b>Avni Patel Thompson</b>, Founder/CEO The Commons</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>